README.md, before:


# Green Planet
 
![iamresponsive View](media/readme-files/screenshot-iamresponsive.jpg)
 
***
 
## Table of Contents:
* [What does this project do?](#what-does-it-do-and-what-does-it-need-to-fulfill)
* [Functionality of Project](#functionality-of-project)
* [Business Model](#business-model)
* [User Experience](#user-experience)
   * [User Stories](#user-stories)
   * [Design](#design)
       * [1. Font](#1-font)
       * [2. Color Scheme](#2-color-scheme)
       * [3. Logo](#3-logo)
       * [4. Geometry](#4-geometry)
       * [5. Wireframing](#5-wireframing)
* [Technology Used](#technology-used)
* [Database](#database)
* [Features](#features)
   * [Future Features](#future-features)
* [Testing](#testing)
   * [Defensive Design](#defensive-design)
* [Deployment](#deployment)
* [Credits](#credits)
   * [Special Thanks & Acknowledgements](#special-thanks--acknowledgements)
 
***

 
## What does this project do?
One of the major problems in our modern world that we are facing right now is the massive waste we all produce each day and it has a terrible impact on our environment. One third of our yearly food supply is thrown away to the garbage and this is not good for our society and to our environment.


In this project, the main goal is to reduce food waste that restaurants, grocery stores, hotels and even bakery stores produce everyday and aren’t consumed totally and most of these products are thrown away in the trash. In short, we are rescuing the leftovers or surplus food.


This project is mainly an online ecommerce food shopping site. To achieve our goal, this site offers promotions to consumers who want low cost food products and goods, especially for those who have a low budget each month. It’s a good way to help those who are in need of a nice good meal.


Businesses will also have benefits in this action due to the fact that all products and goods that aren’t totally consumed or sold inside their business (restaurant, hotel, stores etc) are going to be sold through this website and are not wasted away. Businesses will still gain profit from the surplus or leftovers. Nothing should be thrown away as food production costs money, time and lots of effort.

### Favicon
 
![Favicon Image](static/images/favicon.ico)

The favicon used in this project is the same as the logo of the website to give it a sense of uniformity.
 
### Functionality of Project
This application contains a home button, the store, login button or sign up button for the consumers who are interested in purchasing food from the website, and a section for businesses. The additional information about the webpage can be found in the home page to engage the user to browse more without going to any other pages and for them to stay longer in the website. A search bar is available in the navbar so the user can search for any food or stores.

The Store section shows all the promotions available and can be filtered by the different business types like restaurants, hotels, supermarket, bakery etc who want to sell their unconsumed or unsold products. Can also be filtered by the store name, business type category, ratings and price.

The user can add items in the bag and continue to search and add more contents to it. Payment can be done through the bag itself or the notification pop up for easy access. After making the payment, a transaction number is provided to the consumer for pick up. An email confirmation is also sent to the user in case an error occurs and the website is not working well. It is explained in the FAQ section the reason why home delivery is not available.

This application also offers to businesses or companies to join the company’s mission against food waste and sell their unsold or unconsumed products. They can contact us by filling up the form to provide them with the best solution for their business.

When a user registers to the website, the user can browse to the user profile page. In this page, the user can view the contact details, the history and favourites. The user can also make changes to their contact details. If the user is an admin or superuser, this user is given access from this page to create new stores to sell food, edit and delete, create a new business type category and edit them if needed.

The footer has different links to browse for the users' additional information about the website, FAQ, terms and privacy policy. It has social media icons that are also available for the user to browse through the different social media platforms. A subscriber form is also available in the footer for the user to subscribe to newsletter easily.

 
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

## Business Model

The business model for this ecommerce project is B2C (Business to Customer). The customer purchase a food from a business and the customer should pay in advance via online using Stripe.

## User Experience:
 
#### User Stories:
_Generic User (guest/registered):_
* As a generic/registered, I can view the contents and payment guidelines in the homepage so that I am well informed about the website.
* As a generic/registered, I can navigate throught different pages of the website so that I can browse easily from one page to another using the navigation bar. 
* As a generic/registered, I want a home button so that I can return back to the homepage safely.
* As a generic/registered, I can click the social media links from the footer so that I can browse to different social media pages of the website.
* As a generic/registered user I can subscribe to the website's newsletter so that I recieve especial information, content that might interest me and new promotions in my email address.
* As a generic/registered user I can sign up to the website so that I can create my own profile to easily access my contact details when purchasing something from the website.
* As a generic/registered user I can browse through the frequently asked question (FAQ) page so that I can gather more information from other users questions.
* As a generic/registered user I can access the Store page easily so I can browse to all the stores that offers great promotions.
 
_Registered (Logged in) User:_
* As a Registered User, I can log in or log out to my user profile so that I can access my personal contact details.
* As a Registered User, I can get an email confirmation after registration so that I know that my registration was successful.
* As a Registered User, I can have my profile page so that I can view and edit my personal contact information.
* As a Registered User, I can view my favourites stores so that I can browse and purchase from them easily.
* As a Registered User, I can give my rating to a store so that other users can see my feedback.
* As a Registered User, I can view my purchase history so that I can view all the list of previous transactions.

_Shopper:_
* As a shopper I can browse through the different stores so that I can shop easily.
* As a shopper I can add items in the bag so that I can continue shopping or pay for the item faster.
* As a shopper I can select an specific business type category so that I can browse and search a store faster.
* As a shopper I can put filter in my query so that I can view the items according to my preference, such as low to high price, high to low rating.
* As a shopper I can view a single store so that I can see important details like the details of each bag, price, rating, images etc.
* As a shopper I can see the total amount of my purchase in the navbar so that I can keep track of my expenses.
* As a shopper I can easily view the contents of my bag when I click the Add to Bag button so that I know what I added previously and make the checkout easily without clicking the shopping bag button.
* As a shopper I can make the checkout through the bag or the notification pop up so that I can make the payment for the bag of food from the store.
* As a shopper I can make the payment online so that it is easier and faster to finish the transaction.
* As a shopper I can have a feedback in the website so that I am informed if the transaction is successful.
* As a shopper I can recieve a confirmation email of the purchase so that I can collect / pick up my bag of food.

_Administrator:_
* As an admin I want to be able to add more store with the details of the items they sell so that I can provide more stores to the users.
* As an admin I want to be able to delete a store to update the website from any old or not active businesses.
* As an admin I want to add a business type category so that I can add it to a new store.
* As an admin I want to be able to delete a business type  category without losing the stores data so that I can update a business type if needed.
* As an admin I want to provide terms and conditions to all users so that they are aware of and well informed.
* As an admin I want to provide privacy policy to the users so that we can can guarantee their data security.
 
_Developer:_
* As a Developer, I want to learn how to implement an ecommerce website.
* As a Developer, I want to be able to put a secure payment transaction to the ecommerce web application.
* As a Developer, I want to keep learning new staff about software development and improve my knowledge and skills.
* As a Developer, I want to implement a good SEO for the website to attract and engage more users.
* As a Developer, I want to keep all the process organize using the Agile software development approach.
 
#### Design
 
##### 1. Font
lorem
 
##### 2. Color Scheme
lorem - replace as necessary
 
detail color palettes/swatches here using images.
 
The colors used throughout and what for etc....
 
##### 3. Logo
The logo was ... add detail, or remove as necessary
 
![show site logo here](assets/docs/image.png)
 
##### 4. Geometry
 
The application's geometrical aspects...
 
##### 5. Wireframing
 
The wireframes were created for each individual page on three different screen sizes. All the wireframes are down below.
 
<details>
<summary>Wireframes</summary>
Home page
 
![Home page](#)
 
Wish tree page
 
![Wish tree page](#)
 
Send wishes page
 
![Send wishes page](#)
 
Login/Register page
 
![Login/Register page](#)
 
</details>
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
## Technology Used
 
#### Languages, Frameworks, Editors & Version Control:
 
* add notes here on techstack...
 
#### Tools Used:
 
* add notes here on tools used to assist in developing the project...
 
## Database
 
#### Database Schema:
 
Detail the db schema here (if applicable)....images, thoughts behind fks etc
 
## Features
 
The project boasts several key features:
* Create: ...
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
#### Future Features:
 
* Detail future implementations here...
 
## Testing
 
Testing was ...
 
#### Found Bugs and Fixes:
 
During manual testing...
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
#### Defensive Design
 
Defensive design for this application was...
 
## Deployment
 
Detail deployment here...
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
## Credits
 
* Detail credits
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
#### Special Thanks & Acknowledgements:
 
* Team 11 🤜
 
###### <i>Disclaimer: This project was created for educational use only as part of Code Institute's __________</i>
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)

Commit message:

Add color schema to the readme file documentation

README.md, after:


# Green Planet
 
![iamresponsive View](media/readme-files/screenshot-iamresponsive.jpg)
 
***
 
## Table of Contents:
* [What does this project do?](#what-does-it-do-and-what-does-it-need-to-fulfill)
* [Functionality of Project](#functionality-of-project)
* [Business Model](#business-model)
* [User Experience](#user-experience)
   * [User Stories](#user-stories)
   * [Design](#design)
       * [1. Font](#1-font)
       * [2. Color Scheme](#2-color-scheme)
       * [3. Logo](#3-logo)
       * [4. Geometry](#4-geometry)
       * [5. Wireframing](#5-wireframing)
* [Technology Used](#technology-used)
* [Database](#database)
* [Features](#features)
   * [Future Features](#future-features)
* [Testing](#testing)
   * [Defensive Design](#defensive-design)
* [Deployment](#deployment)
* [Credits](#credits)
   * [Special Thanks & Acknowledgements](#special-thanks--acknowledgements)
 
***

 
## What does this project do?
One of the major problems in our modern world that we are facing right now is the massive waste we all produce each day and it has a terrible impact on our environment. One third of our yearly food supply is thrown away to the garbage and this is not good for our society and to our environment.


In this project, the main goal is to reduce food waste that restaurants, grocery stores, hotels and even bakery stores produce everyday and aren’t consumed totally and most of these products are thrown away in the trash. In short, we are rescuing the leftovers or surplus food.


This project is mainly an online ecommerce food shopping site. To achieve our goal, this site offers promotions to consumers who want low cost food products and goods, especially for those who have a low budget each month. It’s a good way to help those who are in need of a nice good meal.


Businesses will also have benefits in this action due to the fact that all products and goods that aren’t totally consumed or sold inside their business (restaurant, hotel, stores etc) are going to be sold through this website and are not wasted away. Businesses will still gain profit from the surplus or leftovers. Nothing should be thrown away as food production costs money, time and lots of effort.

### Favicon
 
![Favicon Image](static/images/favicon.ico)

The favicon used in this project is the same as the logo of the website to give it a sense of uniformity.
 
### Functionality of Project
This application contains a home button, the store, login button or sign up button for the consumers who are interested in purchasing food from the website, and a section for businesses. The additional information about the webpage can be found in the home page to engage the user to browse more without going to any other pages and for them to stay longer in the website. A search bar is available in the navbar so the user can search for any food or stores.

The Store section shows all the promotions available and can be filtered by the different business types like restaurants, hotels, supermarket, bakery etc who want to sell their unconsumed or unsold products. Can also be filtered by the store name, business type category, ratings and price.

The user can add items in the bag and continue to search and add more contents to it. Payment can be done through the bag itself or the notification pop up for easy access. After making the payment, a transaction number is provided to the consumer for pick up. An email confirmation is also sent to the user in case an error occurs and the website is not working well. It is explained in the FAQ section the reason why home delivery is not available.

This application also offers to businesses or companies to join the company’s mission against food waste and sell their unsold or unconsumed products. They can contact us by filling up the form to provide them with the best solution for their business.

When a user registers to the website, the user can browse to the user profile page. In this page, the user can view the contact details, the history and favourites. The user can also make changes to their contact details. If the user is an admin or superuser, this user is given access from this page to create new stores to sell food, edit and delete, create a new business type category and edit them if needed.

The footer has different links to browse for the users' additional information about the website, FAQ, terms and privacy policy. It has social media icons that are also available for the user to browse through the different social media platforms. A subscriber form is also available in the footer for the user to subscribe to newsletter easily.

 
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

## Business Model

The business model for this ecommerce project is B2C (Business to Customer). The customer purchase a food or good that aren't sold or totally consumed from a business through this app and the customer should pay in advance via online using Stripe. When payment is done successfully, an email confirmation is sent to the user for collection.

## User Experience:
 
#### User Stories:
_Generic User (guest/registered):_
* As a generic/registered, I can view the contents and payment guidelines in the homepage so that I am well informed about the website.
* As a generic/registered, I can navigate throught different pages of the website so that I can browse easily from one page to another using the navigation bar. 
* As a generic/registered, I want a home button so that I can return back to the homepage safely.
* As a generic/registered, I can click the social media links from the footer so that I can browse to different social media pages of the website.
* As a generic/registered user I can subscribe to the website's newsletter so that I recieve especial information, content that might interest me and new promotions in my email address.
* As a generic/registered user I can sign up to the website so that I can create my own profile to easily access my contact details when purchasing something from the website.
* As a generic/registered user I can browse through the frequently asked question (FAQ) page so that I can gather more information from other users questions.
* As a generic/registered user I can access the Store page easily so I can browse to all the stores that offers great promotions.
 
_Registered (Logged in) User:_
* As a Registered User, I can log in or log out to my user profile so that I can access my personal contact details.
* As a Registered User, I can get an email confirmation after registration so that I know that my registration was successful.
* As a Registered User, I can have my profile page so that I can view and edit my personal contact information.
* As a Registered User, I can view my favourites stores so that I can browse and purchase from them easily.
* As a Registered User, I can give my rating to a store so that other users can see my feedback.
* As a Registered User, I can view my purchase history so that I can view all the list of previous transactions.

_Shopper:_
* As a shopper I can browse through the different stores so that I can shop easily.
* As a shopper I can add items in the bag so that I can continue shopping or pay for the item faster.
* As a shopper I can select an specific business type category so that I can browse and search a store faster.
* As a shopper I can put filter in my query so that I can view the items according to my preference, such as low to high price, high to low rating.
* As a shopper I can view a single store so that I can see important details like the details of each bag, price, rating, images etc.
* As a shopper I can see the total amount of my purchase in the navbar so that I can keep track of my expenses.
* As a shopper I can easily view the contents of my bag when I click the Add to Bag button so that I know what I added previously and make the checkout easily without clicking the shopping bag button.
* As a shopper I can make the checkout through the bag or the notification pop up so that I can make the payment for the bag of food from the store.
* As a shopper I can make the payment online so that it is easier and faster to finish the transaction.
* As a shopper I can have a feedback in the website so that I am informed if the transaction is successful.
* As a shopper I can recieve a confirmation email of the purchase so that I can collect / pick up my bag of food.

_Administrator:_
* As an admin I want to be able to add more store with the details of the items they sell so that I can provide more stores to the users.
* As an admin I want to be able to delete a store to update the website from any old or not active businesses.
* As an admin I want to add a business type category so that I can add it to a new store.
* As an admin I want to be able to delete a business type  category without losing the stores data so that I can update a business type if needed.
* As an admin I want to provide terms and conditions to all users so that they are aware of and well informed.
* As an admin I want to provide privacy policy to the users so that we can can guarantee their data security.
 
_Developer:_
* As a Developer, I want to learn how to implement an ecommerce website.
* As a Developer, I want to be able to put a secure payment transaction to the ecommerce web application.
* As a Developer, I want to keep learning new staff about software development and improve my knowledge and skills.
* As a Developer, I want to implement a good SEO for the website to attract and engage more users.
* As a Developer, I want to keep all the process organize using the Agile software development approach.
 
#### Design
 
##### 1. Font

The font used for this project is basic and easy to recognize. I used Google fonts Lato with a 400 regular thickness.
 
##### 2. Color Scheme

![Color Schema](media/readme-files/color-schema.jpg)

The color schema was inspired by the colors of a dark night forest. Dark green and dark blue are used to give depth and intensity. The light colors is to give contrast from the dark colors. New colors were added during the development.

`#e7f0e3` is a very light green used for the webpage background

`#946C3E` is a light brown used to enfasize some links and the navbar active page css style

`#99C233` is a neon green used in the navbar
 
##### 3. Logo
The logo was ... add detail, or remove as necessary
 
![show site logo here](assets/docs/image.png)
 
##### 4. Geometry
 
The application's geometrical aspects...
 
##### 5. Wireframing
 
The wireframes were created for each individual page on three different screen sizes. All the wireframes are down below.
 
<details>
<summary>Wireframes</summary>
Home page
 
![Home page](#)
 
Login/Register page
 
![Login/Register page](#)
 
</details>
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
## Technology Used
 
#### Languages, Frameworks, Editors & Version Control:
 
* add notes here on techstack...
 
#### Tools Used:
 
* add notes here on tools used to assist in developing the project...
 
## Database
 
#### Database Schema:
 
Detail the db schema here (if applicable)....images, thoughts behind fks etc
 
## Features
 
The project boasts several key features:
* Create: ...
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
#### Future Features:
 
* Detail future implementations here...
 
## Testing
 
Testing was ...
 
#### Found Bugs and Fixes:
 
During manual testing...
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
#### Defensive Design
 
Defensive design for this application was...
 
## Deployment
 
Detail deployment here...
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
## Credits
 
* Detail credits
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
 
#### Special Thanks & Acknowledgements:
 
* Team 11 🤜
 
###### <i>Disclaimer: This project was created for educational use only as part of Code Institute's __________</i>
 
[Back to Top](#table-of-contents)
